Document air_quality triggers & conditions (#44955)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_conditions/air_quality.is_so2_value.markdown

---
title: "Sulphur dioxide value"
condition: air_quality.is_so2_value
domain: air_quality
description: "Tests the sulphur dioxide level of one or more entities."
related_conditions:
  - air_quality.is_no2_value
  - air_quality.is_ozone_value
---

> The **Sulphur dioxide value** condition passes when a sulphur dioxide (SO2) sensor's reading meets a specific level. SO2 is a sharp-smelling gas released by burning fossil fuels and, in some regions, volcanic activity. Elevated levels irritate the respiratory system and make outdoor air uncomfortable. This condition lets your automation respond to real readings, closing the windows and notifying you to stay indoors when SO2 is too high, and letting fresh air back in once the reading drops.

Reviewer: ✂️ 

```suggestion
The **Sulphur dioxide value** condition passes when a sulphur dioxide (SO2) sensor's reading meets a specific level. SO2 is a sharp-smelling gas released by burning fossil fuels and volcanic activity. Elevated levels irritate the respiratory system and make outdoor air uncomfortable. This condition lets your automation respond to real readings, closing the windows and notifying you to stay indoors when SO2 is too high, and letting fresh air back in once the reading drops.
```

{% endexample %}

This passes when the outdoor SO2 sensor reads at or above 40 µg/m³.

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
threshold:
  description: >
    The sulphur dioxide level the sensor has to meet or exceed for the condition to pass. Accepts a number or a reference to an `input_number`, `number`, or `sensor` entity.
  required: true
  type: any
behavior:
  description: >
    When multiple sensors are targeted, controls how results combine. Accepts `all` or `any`.
  required: true
  type: string
  default: any
{% endoptions_yaml %}

{% include conditions/targets.md %}

{% include conditions/behavior.md %}

## Good to know

- Sensors that are unavailable (`unavailable`) or have an unknown state (`unknown`) are skipped for **Any** and fail for **All**.
- For related pollutant conditions, see [Nitrogen dioxide value](/conditions/air_quality.is_no2_value/) and [Ozone value](/conditions/air_quality.is_ozone_value/).

{% include conditions/try_it.md %}

{% include conditions/more_examples.md %}

### Automation: warn you before heading outside in the morning

> If you live near an industrial area, SO2 readings sometimes spike overnight. This automation triggers at 7:00 AM and checks the outdoor SO2 level. If the reading is at or above 40 ug/m3, you get a notification recommending you stay indoors. On mornings with clean air, you head out without interruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you live near an industrial area, SO2 readings sometimes spike overnight. This automation triggers at 7:00 AM and checks the outdoor SO2 level. If the reading is at or above 40 μg/m3, you get a notification recommending you stay indoors. On mornings with clean air, you can leave without interruption.
```
